This folder contains work that I have done as a member of Longhorn Racing Electric, the University of Texas at Austin's competitor in the annual Formula SAE Electric competition hosted in Lincoln, NE. 

The SAE International Formula SAE program is an engineering design competition for undergraduate and graduate students. The concept behind Formula SAE is that a fictional manufacturing company has contracted a design team to develop a small Formula-style racecar. The prototype racecar is to be evaluated for its potential as a production item. The target marketing group for the racecar is the non-professional weekend autocross racer. Each student team designs, builds and tests a prototype based on a series of rules whose purpose is both to ensure onsite event operations and promote clever problem solving. The vehicle will be inspected in a series of tests to ensure it complies with the competition rules; in addition, the vehicle with driver will be judged in many performance tests on track. The rest of the judging is completed by experts from motorsports, automotive, aerospace and supplier industries on student design, cost and sales presentations.

Within Longhorn Racing Electric, I serve as a member of the Electronics (ELC) subteam, focusing primarily on hardware and control systems. I was responsible for developing two boards for our 2018 vehicle "Leap of Faith", the Rear CPU and the Brake System Plausibility Device (BSPD). The Rear CPU acts as the "brain" of the vehicle, while the BSPD is a failsafe circuit in the event of a control systems failure. In addition, I assisted with the construction of the vehicle's battery, helping spot weld nickle-strip fuses for all 720 battery cells to create the battery pack, assembling and doing bring-up of the vehicle's battery management system (BMS), and constructing the battery control unit, which housed the BMS master board, current sensors, contactors, and high-voltage wiring. 

In addition to my hardware work, I wrote software to help control the vehicle. I wrote driver software for our Tritium WaveSculptor200 motor inverter that allowed for powered control and supported communications over CAN bus. This code was used to successfully drive the car for the first time at the 2018 FSAE Electric competition. I also developed a software state machine that runs in the main code of the Rear CPU. The vehicle's control system is structured so that most decision-making is done by the Rear CPU, with the other boards sending it data and information to make the correct decisions. The state machine traverses states based on this information, and the behavior of the vehicle is determined by which state it is currently in.
